Adding updated What is Git? index.md file (#42)
The-Mycelium-Network/webworkbook: content/topics/what-is-git/index.md

---
title: What is Git?

> keywords: git, github, git explained

Reviewer: ```suggestion
keywords: git, git 101, git explained

```

description: A collection of informational pieces that explains what Git is.
menu:
  main:
    parent: topics
    name: What is Git?
---

> ## So, What is Git?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## So, what is Git?

```

> Git is a distributed version control system (DVCS) that allows you to create a local copy of a remote repository. Creating a local copy enables you to create changes without interfering with original project files. Git is great for collaborations, offline work, or even branching off with new or risky ideas. A terminal is required to use Git however, there are web hosted versions, such as GitHub and GitLab.

Reviewer: There are also GUIs available that would be worth mentioning:
https://git-scm.com/downloads/guis

Author: I will look into this.

> Fun fact! According to a [2022 Developer Survey from Stack Overflow](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2022/#section-version-control-version-control-systems), just under 97% of professional developers use Git. 

Reviewer: Nice!

**See also:**

* [Git vs GitHub: What's the difference?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wpISo9TNjfU&ab_channel=IBMTechnology): This video briefly discusses the difference between Git and GitHub/GitLab.
* [Getting Started - What is Git?](https://www.git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-What-is-Git%3F): Git official documentation gives an overall explanation of how it works.

### History of Git

The creation of Git is an interesting story which holds its origins within the Linux kernel community. Between 1991-2002, changes made to Linux were passed around as patches and archived files; developers even mailed code to one another using disks or flash drives. The creator of Linux, Linus Torvalds, needed to apply these changes to his own source tree. Because of this, the only way to see a history of changes was to compare the large files between releases. 

> In 2002, the Linux kernel community began using BitKeeper (developed by BitMover), which was a proprietary DVCS. In order for the community to use this paid software for free, there were limitations. BitMover would control metadata, as well as disallow Linux developers to be involved in competing revision control projects while using BitKeeper. This relationship ended when Andrew Tridgell reverse-engineered BitKeeper. BitMover was not happy about this.

Reviewer: It would be nice to link to Bitkeep and BitMover if they are still around.

Author: I will look into this.

Torvalds decided to figure out another solution. In 2005, Git was born! Since its creation, a community of developers have continued to improve and maintain the project.

**References and additional reading:**  
1. [A Short History of Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-A-Short-History-of-Git)
2. [History of Git](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/history-of-git/)
3. [A Git Origin Story](https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/git-origin-story)

## How to use Git

Need help? Git can be quite the learning curve. Below are some resources to help get you started.

> * [Git Tutorial for Beginners: Learn Git in 1 Hour](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8JJ101D3knE&ab_channel=ProgrammingwithMosh): This hour-long video walks brand new beginners through the basics of git, starting with the setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Git Tutorial for Beginners: Learn Git in 1 Hour](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8JJ101D3knE&ab_channel=ProgrammingwithMosh): This video walks beginners through the basics of Git, starting with the setup.

```

> * [Git Cheatsheet](https://about.gitlab.com/images/press/git-cheat-sheet.pdf): This is a short pdf file from GitLab with some basic Git commands and a brief explanation of each.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Git Cheatsheet (PDF Download - 86KB)](https://about.gitlab.com/images/press/git-cheat-sheet.pdf): This is a short PDF file from GitLab with some basic Git commands and a brief explanation of each.
```

Thank you for calling out that this is a PDF 👍  Generally, it is also good to add it to the link text and include the size of the PDF)

Author: Gotcha

Fun fact! According to a [2022 Developer Survey from Stack Overflow](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2022/#section-version-control-version-control-systems), just under 97% of professional developers use Git. 

**See also:**

* [Git vs GitHub: What's the difference?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wpISo9TNjfU&ab_channel=IBMTechnology): This video briefly discusses the difference between Git and GitHub/GitLab.
* [Getting Started - What is Git?](https://www.git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-What-is-Git%3F): Git official documentation gives an overall explanation of how it works.

### History of Git

The creation of Git is an interesting story which holds its origins within the Linux kernel community. Between 1991-2002, changes made to Linux were passed around as patches and archived files; developers even mailed code to one another using disks or flash drives. The creator of Linux, Linus Torvalds, needed to apply these changes to his own source tree. Because of this, the only way to see a history of changes was to compare the large files between releases. 

> In 2002, the Linux kernel community began using BitKeeper (developed by BitMover), which was a proprietary DVCS. In order for the community to use this paid software for free, there were limitations. BitMover would control metadata, as well as disallow Linux developers to be involved in competing revision control projects while using BitKeeper. This relationship ended when Andrew Tridgell reverse-engineered BitKeeper. BitMover was not happy about this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In 2002, the Linux kernel community began using [BitKeeper](http://www.bitkeeper.org/)(developed by BitMover), which was a proprietary DVCS. In order for the community to use this paid software for free, there were limitations. BitMover would control metadata, as well as disallow Linux developers to be involved in competing revision control projects while using BitKeeper. This relationship ended when Andrew Tridgell reverse-engineered BitKeeper. BitMover was not happy about this.

```

> Torvalds decided to figure out another solution. In 2005, Git was born! Since its creation, a community of developers have continued to improve and maintain the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Torvalds decided to figure out another solution. In 2005, Git was born! Since its creation, a community of developers has continued to improve and maintain the project. BitKeeper, on the other hand, [went open source in 2016](https://lwn.net/Articles/686986/), after more than a decade of trying to maintain relevance in the shadow of Git.

```

---
title: What is Git?
keywords: git, git 101, git explained

description: A collection of informational pieces that explains what Git is.
menu:
  main:
    parent: topics
    name: What is Git?
---

## So, what is Git?

> Git is a distributed version control system (DVCS) that allows you to create a local copy of a remote repository. Creating a local copy enables you to create changes without interfering with original project files. Git is great for collaborations, offline work, or even branching off with new or risky ideas. A terminal is required to use Git however, there are web hosted versions, such as GitHub and GitLab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Git is a free and open-source Distributed Version Control System (DVCS). It allows tracking changes in any set of files with speed and efficiency. Git supports multiple local branches that can be entirely independent of each other. Creating a local copy enables you to work on changes without interfering with the original project files. Git is great for collaborations, offline work, or even branching off with new or risky ideas. 

Most developers use Git from the command line, but plenty of modern IDE's come with Git integrations (like [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/sourcecontrol/overview), for instance), as well as there are a lot of [GUI tools for users looking for platform-specific experience](https://git-scm.com/downloads/guis/).

There are also many platforms for hosting Git repositories, so they can be used collaboratively over the internet, such as [GitHub](https://github.com/), [GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/) and [BitBucket](https://bitbucket.org/).

```

---

> title: What is Git? - web://workbook

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: What is Git?
```

Remove '- web://workbook' as it is already appended by HUGO

keywords: git, github, git explained
description: A collection of informational pieces that explains what Git is.
menu:
  main:
    parent: topics
    name: What is Git?
---

## So, What is Git?

> Git is a distributed version control system (DVCS) that allows you to create a local copy of a remote repository. Creating a local copy enables you to create changes without interfering with original project files. Git is great for collaborations, offline work, or even branching off with new or risky ideas. A terminal is required to use Git however, there are web hosted versions, such as GitHub and GitLab.

Reviewer 2: I think we could discuss the last sentence a little bit.

There are several GUI Clients to use Git nowadays (it also comes with a built-in one), so I would argue that a terminal is no longer required to use it, although it remains the most common tool.

Also, I think putting Git side by side with GitHub/GitLab for comparison could be a little confusing. The way I see it, GitHub and its peers are tools built on top of Git that have different purposes. 

They are related, for sure, but I don't know if it's accurate to say that GitHub is a “web-hosted version of Git”. Perhaps, we can state that GitHub/GitLab are platforms for hosting Git repositories, so they can be used collaboratively.

Btw, I liked very much the video resource, and it clarifies it, but the sentence alone can be a little misleading. I think we might want to hear @schalkneethling guidance on this.

Author: Okay, no problem waiting for @schalkneethling input. I will commit the other suggestions and hold off on this one until further review.

Reviewer: > They are related, for sure, but I don't know if it's accurate to say that GitHub is a “web-hosted version of Git”. Perhaps, we can state that GitHub/GitLab are platforms for hosting Git repositories, so they can be used collaboratively.

Hey everyone, thank you for having this fruitful discussion. I like your comparison in the quoted text above, @bpires. I reckon we can go with that.

> [Git vs GitHub: What's the difference?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wpISo9TNjfU&ab_channel=IBMTechnology)  
> * This video briefly discusses the difference between Git and GitHub/GitLab.  
> 
> [Getting Started - What is Git?](https://www.git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-What-is-Git%3F)  
> * git-scm.com gives an overall explanation about how Git works.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**See also:**

* [Git vs GitHub: What's the difference?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wpISo9TNjfU&ab_channel=IBMTechnology): This video briefly discusses the difference between Git and GitHub/GitLab.
* [Getting Started - What is Git?](https://www.git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-What-is-Git%3F): Git official documentation gives an overall explanation of how it works.
```

- suggestion to use `<ul>` (we will most likely add more resources later).
- putting a call to indicate what type of resources ("see also" → complementary resources)
- git-scm is the Git per se, so it's better if we can call it "Git documentation"

In 2002, the Linux kernel community began using BitKeeper (developed by BitMover), which was a proprietary DVCS. In order for the community to use this paid software for free, there were limitations. BitMover would control metadata, as well as disallow Linux developers to be involved in competing revision control projects while using BitKeeper. This relationship ended when Andrew Tridgell reverse-engineered BitKeeper. BitMover was not happy about this.

Torvalds decided to figure out another solution. In 2005, Git was born! Since its creation, a community of developers have continued to improve and maintain the project.

**References and additional reading:**  
1. [A Short History of Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-A-Short-History-of-Git)
2. [History of Git](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/history-of-git/)
3. [A Git Origin Story](https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/git-origin-story)

## How to use Git

> Need help? Git can be quite the learning curve. Below are some resources to help get you started.
> 
> [Git Tutorial for Beginners: Learn Git in 1 Hour](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8JJ101D3knE&ab_channel=ProgrammingwithMosh)   
> * This hour long video walks brand new beginners through the basics of git, starting with the setup.
> 
> [Git Cheatsheet](https://about.gitlab.com/images/press/git-cheat-sheet.pdf)  
> * This is a short pdf file from GitLab with some basic Git commands and a brief explanation of each.
> 
> [50 Git Commands](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/git-cheat-sheet/)  
> * 50 Git commands with brief explanations
> 
> [Dangit, Git!?!](https://dangitgit.com/en)  
> * Git got ya down? Mess up? We’ve all been there. This guide helps you get back into the flow (and keeps you from panicking) by helping you fix some common Git mistakes.
> 
> Feeling adventurous? Play these games to practice using Git!  
> * [git-game](https://github.com/git-game/git-game)  
> * [git-game-2](https://github.com/git-game/git-game-v2)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Need help? Git can be quite the learning curve. Below are some resources to help get you started.

* [Git Tutorial for Beginners: Learn Git in 1 Hour](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8JJ101D3knE&ab_channel=ProgrammingwithMosh): This hour-long video walks brand new beginners through the basics of git, starting with the setup.
* [Git Cheatsheet](https://about.gitlab.com/images/press/git-cheat-sheet.pdf): This is a short pdf file from GitLab with some basic Git commands and a brief explanation of each.
* [50 Git Commands](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/git-cheat-sheet/): 50 Git commands with brief explanations
* [Dangit, Git!?!](https://dangitgit.com/en): Git got ya down? Mess up? We’ve all been there. This guide helps you get back into the flow (and keeps you from panicking) by helping you fix some common Git mistakes.

Feeling adventurous? Play these games to practice using Git! 

* [git-game](https://github.com/git-game/git-game)
* [git-game-2](https://github.com/git-game/git-game-v2)
  
```

It's important to respect markdown specs. We should use the `*` only for unordered list items. I guess this way (the item + its description), we can list the resources without taking too much space or breaking the list continuity. What do you think?

Author: I agree. I was not sure exactly which type of format was needed, so I just typed out what made sense at the time.

Most developers use Git from the command line, but plenty of modern IDE's come with Git integrations (like [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/sourcecontrol/overview), for instance), as well as there are a lot of [GUI tools for users looking for platform-specific experience](https://git-scm.com/downloads/guis/).

There are also many platforms for hosting Git repositories, so they can be used collaboratively over the internet, such as [GitHub](https://github.com/), [GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/) and [BitBucket](https://bitbucket.org/).

Fun fact! According to a [2022 Developer Survey from Stack Overflow](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2022/#section-version-control-version-control-systems), just under 97% of professional developers use Git. 

**See also:**

* [Git vs GitHub: What's the difference?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wpISo9TNjfU&ab_channel=IBMTechnology): This video briefly discusses the difference between Git and GitHub/GitLab.
* [Getting Started - What is Git?](https://www.git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-What-is-Git%3F): Git official documentation gives an overall explanation of how it works.

> ### History of Git
> 
> The creation of Git is an interesting story which holds its origins within the Linux kernel community. Between 1991-2002, changes made to Linux were passed around as patches and archived files; developers even mailed code to one another using disks or flash drives. The creator of Linux, Linus Torvalds, needed to apply these changes to his own source tree. Because of this, the only way to see a history of changes was to compare the large files between releases. 
> 
> In 2002, the Linux kernel community began using [BitKeeper](http://www.bitkeeper.org/)(developed by BitMover), which was a proprietary DVCS. In order for the community to use this paid software for free, there were limitations. BitMover would control metadata, as well as disallow Linux developers to be involved in competing revision control projects while using BitKeeper. This relationship ended when Andrew Tridgell reverse-engineered BitKeeper. BitMover was not happy about this.
> 
> 
> Torvalds decided to figure out another solution. In 2005, Git was born! Since its creation, a community of developers has continued to improve and maintain the project. BitKeeper, on the other hand, [went open source in 2016](https://lwn.net/Articles/686986/), after more than a decade of trying to maintain relevance in the shadow of Git.
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### History of Git

The creation of Git is an interesting story which holds its origins within the Linux kernel community. Between 1991-2002, changes made to Linux were passed around as patches and archived files; developers even mailed code to one another using disks or flash drives. The creator of Linux, Linus Torvalds, needed to apply these changes to his own source tree. Because of this, the only way to see a history of changes was to compare the large files between releases. 

In 2002, the Linux kernel community began using [BitKeeper](http://www.bitkeeper.org/) (developed by BitMover), which was a proprietary DVCS. In order for the community to use this paid software for free, there were limitations. BitMover would control metadata, as well as disallow Linux developers to be involved in competing revision control projects while using BitKeeper. This relationship ended when Andrew Tridgell reverse-engineered BitKeeper. BitMover was not happy about this.

Torvalds decided to figure out another solution. In 2005, Git was born! Since its creation, a community of developers has continued to improve and maintain the project. BitKeeper, on the other hand, [went open source in 2016](https://lwn.net/Articles/686986/), after more than a decade of trying to maintain relevance in the shadow of Git.

```

**References and additional reading:**  
1. [A Short History of Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-A-Short-History-of-Git)
2. [History of Git](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/history-of-git/)
3. [A Git Origin Story](https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/git-origin-story)

> ## How to use Git

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### How to use Git

```
